a bonus yen they see you from DC yep
what's your favorite spot to eat in DC
now that I'm vegan it's a little tough
it's a little different for me you know
eating habits man you know everybody
going vegan and vegetarian you know just
watching Noah the other day and I
decided to do it - I'm actually vegan
right now bringing on the vegan diet go
to vegan diet leader in about two months
I mean I was a vegetarian for years
before that well when I went all the way
plant-based I want to say it's three and
a half years now okay you were saying in
the parking lot that chicken is real bad
for you go what you got a phone bro like
we do everything like that's what I try
to tell people like with food let you
Google your pants your shirts the stores
you're going to the on Instagram your on
Twitter you want everything everything
you eat everything that's out there you
could do research on if you have
children and you worried about the
future in your community who's around
then maybe you should just do a little
homework or what you eating just you
know do a little knowledge on it would
you say hey I don't even know what a
happy meal look like thank god he's four
years old your four year old vegans you
love green juices and
apples and strawberries and berries
that's when he snacks on you don't mean
so no I would never do that I didn't
even eat that [ __ ] when I was pregnant
just so he wouldn't eat it so it's
different you want to give your kids you
know better things than what you
experienced about us Yin I'm going to
make a culturally specific comparison
here and so somebody watching this who's
maybe in Germany or even New Zealand
might not get this the way someone from
Canada or the United States would what
thoughts or feelings come to mind when I
just say to you the words Jehovah's
Witness now Jehovah's Witnesses
especially in the 1980s and this has
changed a little bit since the year 2000
thing the Jehovah's Witnesses were
constantly the subject of jokes and
insults by stand-up comedians they were
really hated and resented publicly and
like in terms of public protests or
demonstrations they really did nothing
wrong all they did was walk up to people
and try to talk about their doctrine
like when you think about it this is the
most minor of inconveniences having a
Jehovah's Witness knock on your door or
having Jehovah's Witnesses standing by
the side of the road with pamphlets
willing to talk to you be in a democracy
that's a very important form of freedom
speech and they became intensely hated I
would say in the the 1980s and 1990s
here in Victoria we have people who
stand on the street promoting Amnesty
International take the phone off the
hook they're sorry
um we have people stay on the street
promoting Amnesty International and they
don't wear masks and they don't show
solder has footage they just stand there
wearing a kind of uniform holding a
clipboard and ask to talk to you as you
go by and you don't have I have talked
to them for maybe 45 minutes it's pretty
long I don't know it felt like forever
minutes maybe it was only 20 minutes I
had one long conversation with them once
and now I walked past them almost every
day and I regard it completely
negatively and they're not doing
anything wrong if you're doing this kind
of protest and I know they were telling
me specifically Melbourne and
Sydnee multiple times per week every
week of course in the same places you
know not every single day but again and
again they're cycling locations you have
to realize that for the people in that
neighborhood something that might have
been intriguing or even charming the
first time they saw it is going to
become resented and oppressive the tenth
time they see it or if it becomes a
feature of their daily life I'm a vegan
and I don't really want to see slaughter
as footage when I'm walking on the
sidewalk every day so the effect of that
is going to be much greater than the
impact in terms of creating this kind of
public resentment of Amnesty
International and they say I feel that
resentment even with Amnesty
International just standing over there
with their clipboard now again this is
culturally specific some people get at
some won't especially if you're a bit
older what thoughts or what feelings
come to your mind when I say the word
Hari Krishna the Hari Krishna's
especially in the 1980s they would stand
around at airports playing music and
singing you play music live with live
instruments to promote their religion
and anyone can say well what a harmless
inoffensive form of protest or
demonstration or I tweet that's not what
you guys do you don't just play music or
smile at people and tell them oh no
you're showing something really
offensive and upsetting to people you
know thought iris footage you know and
and Hari Krishna's became the butt of
every joke there was so many it was a
common thing in stand-up comedy and now
I can remember watching a movie from the
1980s a comedy that made a joke on
camera about Hari Krishna's so this is a
contrast between approximant the 1980s
and today Hari Krishna's became the butt
of many jokes there are many movies and
stand-up comedians making jokes about
this even though like again they did
nothing wrong there's nothing so
offensive or even intrusive about their
form of demonstration poke protester
activism and you'll notice that that
disappeared they stopped doing that they
stopped the the religion still exists by
the way but they stopped this I mean I
guess I can't even call it an aggressive
form of street activism it's really
nothing and yet that was enough to
create so much resentment and so much
hatred now the contrast I'd make is this
and this is I'm saying this to challenge
vegans to say this is no
the only way outside of many major
cities in Asia also even in the Western
world there is a Buddhist temple on the
top of a mountain and you can't see it
but you know it's there you can google
it you can talk about it
so outside of Taipei is Dharma drum
Mountain beautiful views you got to take
a bus up that well if you if you really
want you can walk up the steps to the
Buddhist temple it's there for you
anytime you want to go its austere it's
forbidding it's not necessarily
welcoming there's nobody telling you hey
you know you you know you really gotta
go there's nobody singing and dancing
there's nobody knocking on your door
trying to sell you this and the level of
respect and esteem the Buddhist religion
gets just for that austerity and silence
of saying here we are on the top of this
mountain we've got something worth
having we have a doctrine to teach you
when you're ready to learn it the
attitude the public has towards those
forms of Buddhism Buddhism on the top of
a mountain and I would say that's true
whether you're talking about a mountain
in Southeast Asia or Taiwan or even New
York and so on
this has been imitated this this method
it's completely different now obviously
I'm not suggesting some kind of really
simple binary application of this to
veganism today but I'm pointing out the
range of options is far more diverse
there's far more to think about here
than just street activism versus a
pancake stand but in terms of the
resentment you you know you should try
to understand my mentioning you know if
I was on the same street corner in
Melbourne just having a vegan pancakes
stand every Wednesday the people who
hate veganism wouldn't hate that
pancakes then it wouldn't be responded
to in the same way you know and if we
can if you can produce something that is
really attracted to people that really
has something of substance and merit you
have something that's worthwhile to
offer whether it's at the top of a
mountain or it's on the beach or it's in
a cave you know and it's there
that earns you a different it's a
different type of public perception
different kind of respect it's a whole
different dynamic to the situation so
yeah I mean you know the level of hatred
Jehovah's Witnesses received and hard
Christians received I think it's fine I
mean Paul accepts it I think but
everyone has to realize that your group
is going to receive exponentially more
hatred and resentment from the general
public than that even though obviously
on a factual level you're right I mean
you know I don't believe in Jehovah's
Witness and I think at the with their
religion is [ __ ] it's not the point
of course what you see on that screen I
mean I assume you guys are showing clips
from from farm to fridge or one of these
major documentaries oh no I'm not I'm
not reviewing the particular
slaughterhouse footage but I know I mean
the slaughterhouse footage is real the
ecological facts are real the health I
mean the health and all the other
elements to this puzzle I am NOT saying
on that level you're wrong but
nevertheless from the perspective of the
Jehovah's Witnesses and the Hari
Krishna's they think they're right too
and you know there's gonna be a cultural
and we will see okay right so you make a
totally valid point but I'm gonna
disagree with anyway something can be
valid but here's the problem
the Internet's Hollow so one of my first
videos addressing this is titled on
community that's the whole title and
there's a special playlist for it people
were so inspired by that video that we
did and that's that I called my
manifesto video it says what my channel
is all about will my approach to begin
ism
and that video was translated into many
many languages it's been translated and
translated into Russian and German a
long list of Chinese Japanese I think is
on there there's a long list of
languages this is a short video and the
title already tells you on community you
get a sense of what this is talking
about um the problem is when you get to
the top of the mountain there has to be
something there and it has to be real
right so you know obviously we're not
actually talking about literally a
buddhist temple here when you when you
go on that internet it's really hollow
there's nothing for you you're all alone
you know now you know incredibly few
places I think maybe Tel Aviv in Israel
there is really a vegan community there
are some maybe institutions or
structures or something well I'll give
you a real word exam I don't want this
to be hypothetical want this to be very
very real let's say we start with 30
million dollars which is compared to
what petaa spends every year is not a
lot of money if you look at the budgets
of big vegan organizations and let me
say in a major city like San Francisco
it could be any major city we choose we
build absolutely the best health club
and sauna it's just a gym with many with
a swimming pool with many amenities you
could have a small hotel there it's a
very desirable place to be maybe their
conference facilities and here's the
thing you're only allowed to be a member
if you're vegan now you could maybe have
some rules if you're non vegan you can
bring a guest for one day get a one-day
pass or something now I'm not putting
this forward as the world's most
effective form of activism but I'm
speeding this issue of there being
something on top of the mountain an
institution like that again like a
synagogue is a real place if you convert
to Judaism you join the Jewish community
there were actual benefits there's a
retirement home you can go on a vacation
cruise to the Seychelles Islands you
know with you could there are various
things you can participate in and join
actual institutions and what-have-you
and for the vast majority of people
around the world with with veganism
there's really nothing it's hollow once
you get into there is no community there
is no institution I
actually think that having that kind of
institution and you know if people come
who are non-vegan as guests or for a
special event if for one day past
obviously you'd provide them with the
information say look we have a really
great facility here if you want to join
you know here's what you need to know
here's the pamphlet or whatever about
you know health effects of eating
whatever you're gonna put in the
pamphlet what slaughterhouse the
slaughterhouse footage ecology health
the whole thing you'll put in that
pamphlet look this is the reason why
this whole place exists and why we don't
allow meteors to be members now this is
this was about um you know that's that's
comparable to the mountaintop because
there's really something there and again
the feeling someone is gonna have even
if they were excluded from it even
someone who maybe visits that or knows
about it who knows it's there on the
Mount of those go I think is a kind of
esteem and respect that's very different
from the feelings they'll have for um
you know people who are really an
obstruction on their way to work where
every day on their way to work they've
got a look at these people with the the
video monitors and so on hope that
doesn't fill you with reckless optimism
look I'll give you one more contrast and
this is one that is a really specific
dollar figure on it with all this
haven't been said thirty thousand
dollars is a lot less money than thirty
million there's a guy who is an anti
circumcision advocate I recently talked
about my channel so circumcision is not
I mean most people just don't want to
talk about it like veganism nobody wants
to think about it nobody wants to think
about where the meat comes from nobody
wants to think about you know the
surgery on men's penises and the ethics
you know surrounding it no one was think
about it um how did he do this he paid
thirty thousand dollars to rent a
theater in near Harvard University so I
don't know I think it was on campus at
Harvard this theater from from what I
read and he paid for a package where so
we had the theater to give his lecture
for one night it's a two-hour lecture
and they made posters and flyers some
advertising some promotion he paid a
publicist this is kind of a package deal
all wrapped up and he also made some
YouTube videos promoting it but the
YouTube videos didn't really reach
anybody email not spam you know you can
just dump something on YouTube and a
couple hundred
the other night it wasn't it wasn't
YouTube that that created this
phenomenon so and he prepared and
presented a one-man play
he gave this lecture on stage now it
reached a large number of people on
YouTube I don't want to give the number
now the last I saw it only a couple days
after it went up and he had more than 50
thousand views so I'm guessing it's more
since then but he was covered by the
newspapers he got into the mainstream
newspapers and he's already created now
really the basis for a political
movement for a charity for other people
who are interested in this who are one
in a million
God in touched part started supporting
him now okay I'm not saying this is the
most effective form of activism
compared to what pedda does with $30,000
compared to what a lot of big vegan
advocacy because there are people with
real budgets in this game and you know I
mean it's I think you can also compare
it to I mean quite a lot of money was
was donated to Gary Yourofsky you know I
mean there were other comparisons to be
made but I mean fundamentally you know
there were posters advertising and so on
but his audience
you know consisted of people who wanted
to hear this and then it reached a
larger audience through the newspapers
through YouTube probably through radio
you know other forms of news media
discussing it
it had a knock-on effect so there there
are other examples out there there are
other things to consider and obviously
these are not all mutually exclusive I
mean life is short but you know one I
keep pointing to whenever people say to
me that I'm not a real vegan activist I
say do you know I wrote a children's
story book and I wrote it in Chinese
it's a children's storybook presenting
the philosophy of veganism in a form
where a parent and child can sit down
and read this it's not slaughterhouse
footage it's cute it's interesting you
know and it's in English it's in Chinese
it's been translated into several other
languages getting this Illustrated and
published just I just challenge people
is that or is that not legitimate vegan
activism no there's a price tag
publishing a book isn't free it's not
going to cost nothing probably less than
$30,000 but you know there's gonna be
there's gonna be cost involved and I
mean I can ask you why but I mean anyone
and we used specifically in
of what made you go vegan it's very
likely that the storybooks you read as a
child were part of it and I'm not saying
this insult you but even if you don't
know it a lot of people grew up even
that watch Bambi even they just read
story books about animals animals that
talk like Charlotte's Web the story
books and culture you grew up and do
affect why you became vegan I think I
think for all of us for me I told
thistles I'm reading reading comic books
like a Batman which I'm very critical of
I think Batman is probably bad for
children but you know the ideas about
justice and morality that were in Batman
impacted me much more than anything in
the Bible I mean that really you know
for better and for worse you know Batman
and children's storybooks this stuff is
out there too now I'm not insulting
anyone like it's possible someone walked
down the street had never thought about
these ethical issues before saw a
protester and became vegan on the spot I
in my whole life I've known one guy who
is like that but it's it's more likely
even if protest is part of your process
process you know after you become vegan
or before he convenient it is more
likely that movies including of course
documentary movies but even movies like
Bambi cartoons or adventures movies and
books and this kind of cultural
production is a big part of it so again
I mean just in this discussion I'm I'm
broadening the set of competing
alternatives and then when you say this
to people you know who have some options
in life you know whatever you're just
not in homeless poverty
you you whether you're middle class or
low of us whatever you have some
stability in your life that you can
devote to a project all of a sudden they
realize wow okay a book project or a
food service project like you know
something like vegan pancakes you know
like okay wow there's a whole range of
things here that can be community
building and movement building in a lot
of different ways and we're at the end
of the process I'm gonna have something
to look back on that's really meaningful
in my life and again someone like Hannah
mania not everyone she looks back on the
100 protests she attended and there is a
lot of resentment there not only
resentment she also she's talked about
this this is not a secret Ari but she
met a bunch of her boyfriends she got
laid through going to protest she stuck
with it very openly on her channel it
was funny um you know she's tied with
those so she
to it it wasn't all bad but there was a
lot of resentment and disappointment and
for a lot of people they're gonna have
to look back and say what did I do with
the last five years of my life and now
we have to start making smarter choice
what we do in the next five years a
bonus Yin [ __ ] no live [ __ ] know
what I do different about to say about
it's literally Harlem verse the vegans
me verb and be da it's like what do you
mean planet what's the odds of creepy it
[ __ ] being on the date baby me as they
plant